= ws_discovery

* {Homepage}[https://github.com/pelco-automation/ws-discovery]
* {WS-Discovery 1.0 Specification}[http://specs.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/04/discovery/ws-discovery.pdf]
* {SOAP-over-UDP Specification}[http://specs.xmlsoap.org/ws/2004/09/soap-over-udp/soap-over-udp.pdf]

== Description

This gem aims to provide the ability to search for WS-Discovery compatible target
services.

This uses EventMachine[http://github.com/eventmachine/eventmachine], so if
you're not already, getting familiar with its concepts will be helpful here.

== Features

* Search for WS-Discovery compatible target services.

== Examples

=== WS-Discovery Searches

A WS-Discovery search simply sends the probe out to the multicast group and
listens for responses for a given (or default of 5 seconds) amount of time.  The
return from this depends on if you're running it within an EventMachine reactor
or not.  If not, it returns an Array of responses as WSDiscovery::Responses.
Take a look at the WSDiscovery#search docs for more on the options here.

  require 'ws_discovery'

  # Search for all devices (do a probe with Types left unspecified)
  all_devices = WSDiscovery.search                         # this is default

  # Search for devices of a specific Type
  network_video_transmitters = WSDiscovery.search(
    env_namespaces: { "xmlns:dn" => "http://www.onvif.org/ver10/network/wsdl" },
    types: "dn:NetworkVideoTransmitter")

  # These searches will return an Array of WSDiscovery::Responses.  See the
  # WSDiscovery::Response documentation for more information.

If you do the search inside of an EventMachine reactor, as the
WSDiscovery::Searcher receives and parses responses, it adds them to the accessor
#discovery_responses, which is an EventMachine::Channel.  This lets you subscribe
to the responses and do what you want with them.

== Requirements

* Ruby
  * 1.9.3
* Gems
  * builder
  * eventmachine
  * log_switch
  * nokogiri
  * nori
  * uuid
* Gems (development)
  * bundler
  * rake
  * rspec
  * simplecov
  * simplecov-rcov
  * yard

== Install

  $ gem install ws_discovery

== THANKS

The initial core of this gem came from https://github.com/turboladen/upnp due to
the similarities in how SSDP and WS-Discovery searches are performed.

The WSDiscovery::Response class reuses parts of https://github.com/savonrb/savon.
It made sense to me that WSDiscovery::Responses would behave similarly to
Savon::SOAP::Responses.
